---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: Group Progress Report"
---

## Invited Talk by Riju Khatri
In the first lecture of the week, we had Riju Khatri as our guest speaker. Riju Khatri is an open-source developer who had years of experience in working on large-scale open-source projects such as Fedora, OpenStack, and Mozilla. She shared with us her takeaways from contributing to these projects and gave us tips about continuing open source contributions in the future. 

First, she shared her background as an open-source developer. Also studied at NYU, she started making open-source contributions during her senior year and continued to work on it for the following years. Fedora was one of the first large open-source projects she worked on. Her experience with this project is overall fine. As there are so many people working on this project synchronously, the codebase changes very fast. Consistency was very important when contributing to such a project because the code needs to be well documented for the convenience of others.

She also pointed out that when selecting an open-source project, it is very important to understand how the corresponding community deals with newcomers. Are they friendly enough? Do they provide clear instructions? How fast do they generally respond to questions? etc. In this case, OpenStack is very supportive. This is why she then chose to contribute to this project. 

Riju then discussed how contributing to open-source projects helped her in her career path. She noted that her employers did not understand why she was making open-source contributions at first. But as she started to contribute to Mozilla and was able to demonstrate how Firefox works behind the scene, which is highly relevant to one of the projects in her company, her open-source contributions start to become very useful.

In the end, Riju discussed several benefits of making open-source contributions which I deeply agree with. First, these contributions look good on your resume. They make people curious and understand your ability to collaborate in a big community. These contributions also speak a lot about your passion for tech. And last but not least, they allow you to network with great minds across the globe.

## Final Presentations: Day 1
We had 3 groups present their group contributions during the second lecture of the week. In my opinion, all of them did very well in contributing to their project and delivering the information.
### OpenLibrabry
The first group to present was OpenLibrary. As the name suggests, it is an open-source an open, editable library built for every book that is published. 

The OpenLibrary group described this project as an "amazing experience". They get fast responses to their questions whenever they post on slack. They had weekly community calls to talk about issues as well as the feedback they had. 

As this is the first time they contribute to such a large codebase, they were uncertain about whether they can solve the issues they got assigned. But in the end, everything turned out to be fine. They made contributions including fixing styling problems, translating content into Chinese, and improving their old social cards on Twitter. 

Because of such a welcoming and supportive community, they recommended OpenLibrary as a project for everyone in the class and future students who will take this course.


### CAGOV
CAGOV group was the second to present. This project is a responsive design system that makes it easy to build digital services. 

The project is also very inclusive and responds to messages rather fast. After they left the first comment under their GitHub repo, the maintainers set up a call with them to discuss potential issues they are interested to work on. 

CAGOV group's contributions included enhancing clickable image cards, modifying statewide headers, and designing a more accessible UI. All in all, it was a pleasant experience working on this project.

### Oppia - Group 8
The Oppia group was the third to present. Just like us, they had things they love about Oppia, but also a lot of things they did not particularly enjoy.

First, Oppia is certainly a project with great accessibility. They have 54 languages and dialects, and support closed captioning. The project also has a very welcoming community. However, as this is a very large-scale project which only had several active maintainers, it usually takes a long time for their pull requests to be responded to. 

Their contributions were mostly backend since all of them are more familiar with python. In sum, they think Oppia is a fine project. The only drawback was that it takes too long for them to get any responses.