---
layout: post
title: "Week 15: Group Progress Report"
---

## Final Presentations: Day 1
This week we had more presentations from different teams. During the first lecture of the week, my team, Oppia (group 7), also gave our presentation. It is interesting to hear how other groups did with the project they chose. Although some had positive results working on their project while others struggled, we all learned a lot in the end.

### OneArmy
After our presentation, the second to present was OneArmy. OneArmy is a platform to help contribute to social & environmental projects. It is a small and active community. The team had close interaction with their maintainers: they constantly get suggested issues to work on from the maintainers and get responses fast. They worked on various frontend issues such as adding mobile support for the website. Contributing to an open-source project is easier than they have first thought. They also learned more about GitHub and TypeScript, and how the open-source community functions. So overall, OneArmy is a great project and they would pick it again if they had a second chance.

### Blender
The third group to present contributed to Blender. Blender is a 3D modeling software that I always wanted to learn more about. Because of the scale of the software, it has a very large community. According to the team, they often get fast responses when asking general questions such as "can I claim this issue". However, when it comes to asking for help on specific code-based issues, it is hard to get in contact with the corresponding maintainer. Another problem with this project is that they cannot claim an issue - anyone could work on any issue. Because of this, their first issue got "robbed" after studying it for weeks. 

The second issue they worked on was adding a shortcut key that gives the toolbar a page-jumping feature. They successfully implemented the feature and submitted their first patch. Their overall evaluation of working on this project was that the issues themselves are very difficult. If they had a second chance, they would pick an easier open-source project to contribute to.

### Zulip
The last group to present was Zulip. Zulip is an open-source chat and collaboration system. They picked the project because it has a big community that genuinely cared about open-source. They had an entire section on their website dedicated to open-source. Their good communication with the team also proved that point. The team's contribution to the Zulip project included fixing frontend issues and adding more translations in Chinese.

## Final Presentations: Day 2
### Spicetify
The first team to present for the day was Spicetify. Spicetify was an open-source project that adds more interesting themes to Spotify Desktop. The most challenging point of the project was the installation. But after that, they were able to work on the project smoothly. Their first contribution was making the already dark Spotify theme even darker. The second one was making different-colored themes. From this project, they learned a lot of CSS techniques and realized the importance of reaching out. I find their contributions visually appealing.
  
### Blender
The second group to present was the Blender group. As aforementioned, blender has a huge community. The fast pace of this project adds a lot of obstacles for them to get help. The project is also differently structured. They needed to find specific module leaders to review their patches, or .diff files, to get their code merged. They find the process laborious and has a very steep learning curve/ 

About the contribution, they commented that the "good first issues" are not really easy for beginners. They had to work on an overwhelming codebase - finding the cause of the bug itself could take up days. 

Their contributions included fixing short-cut keys, reporting their good first issues, fixing typos, and improving the lighthouse test performance. They had a lot of challenges contributing to this project, such as learning how to make patches and submit diffs. They also experienced frustrations such as issues getting stolen and cannot find the correct reviewer. Nevertheless, they had a lot of good moments as well. They had a great time working together and learning how to use Blender.

Their takeaway from this project was that it is okay to be stuck. It is a good process for you to learn, as long as you don't give up. Read the documentation, and reach out for help.

### Oppia - Group 3
The last group was Oppia, group 3. As one of the other Oppia groups, they also struggled with implementation. Their first worked on one of the suggested beginner-friendly issues. They also made a lot of non-code contributions such as planning lessons, writing problems, and implementing lessons for elementary school students. By contributing to this project, they learned a lot more about git, such as the `git rebase` command. They also experienced the power of the open-source. They had cross-timezone collaborations with the founder of Oppia, who is located in Malaysia. They also found that the short weekly meetings with the Oppia maintainers were very productive. 

In sum, it is great having this class and learning about the open-source model. At the beginning of this semester, I had doubts about contributing to large projects. I was also unsure about my ability to use git and had zero experience with lots of git commands. Now, with all that I have learned about contributing to open source projects, I am more comfortable with collaborating with other programmers and making my own contributions.