---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: The Role Open Source Play in Communities"
---

## Invited Talk by Christopher Snider
In the first lecture of the week, we had Christopher Snider as our guest speaker. Christopher is a representative of TidePool - a non-profit, open-source healthcare platform that helps all people with insulin-required diabetes.
His lecture gives me a fresh view of open-source projects. In the past, I often relate maintaining s open-source software with writing codes. But Christopher, a non-programmer, plays a vital role in this project. And from his point of view, he explained many obstacles an open-source project might be facing other than technical challenges.

First is the resource - money can become a major concern in maintaining a non-profit open-source project like TidePool. Without profits, it is hard to attract a lot of contributors. So most individuals who work for TidePool either have diabetes themselves or someone close to them has it. The second is data privacy. Different people have different opinions about how their data should be used. People from different parts of the world also have different concerns regarding where their data are being stored. In addition to that, the choice of hardware can also be an impediment: sometimes when a hardware updates, as they did not develop the hardware themselves, some part of the software may also be broken. So as time progresses, these problems start to appear.

Christopher also addressed some problems we are curious about. Someone asked if TidePool can be extended to use on animals - for example, dogs have diabetes. The answer is that it's possible. Could happen in the future. Another problem is that while diabetes might be a disease that concerns a large number of people, some other diseases such as ITP are very rare that they may not have a large enough community to call for healthcare software dedicated for them. This is not an easy problem to address, but sooner or later, we hope that they can also benefit from such open-source projects.

## The Role of Open Efforts
From Christopher's talk and the short films we watch last week, we witnessed the positive effects open source projects have on our society.

From an educational aspect, there are a lot of open-source projects dedicated to cultivating the younger generations. For example, a lot of schools across the world now have open-source labs. Students nowadays can also have free access to many open-source textbooks via the internet. Open source projects play an essential role in lowering the bar of entry for everyone to get educated.

In the field of agriculture, open source also plays an important role. For instance, the Food Computer project encourages the younger generation to get a better understanding of farming. the project brings high technology farming into schools. They teach students how to write programs that make robots plant crops. Projects like this are altering people's views about farming and have the great potential of addressing the world's starvation.

The roles of open efforts also penetrated other parts of our life. For example, when a resident calls a fire truck, the time elapsed from the report to the first fire truck arrives at the scene is being recorded as open data. With this data, people get useful information such as which district is safer so that they can make more informed decisions when choosing where to live. Another example would be that nowadays when we go to the hospital, we have open access to our medical data and notes. This helps us to understand our health situation more clear. 