---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Git Exercise and Discussion with Jim Hall"
---

## Git Exercise
This week we dived into the version control system and learned basic command lines to clone from a repository, add files, commit updates, push changes, etc. We also worked together on a hands-on activity to contribute and resolve merge conflicts in a Github repository.

Before this class, I have been using Github to keep track of my codes and as a place to share my works. I was familiar with simple commands such as "git push", "git add", "git commit", and "git pull" before. However, when it comes to merging conflicts, I am always confused and scared of making changes that might break the entire program. After this class, having learned that resolving merge conflicts is in fact as easy as reading and choosing between several lines of code, I feel much more comfortable with working on the same repository with others.

## Invited Talk by Jim Hall
In the second lecture of the week, we had an inspiring discussion with Jim Hall about his view on open source development. Jim Hall is a maintainer of the FreeDOS Project, and also one of the very first open-source developers who have witnessed the birth and evolution of this idea. 

One interesting change Jim Hall noted about the changes in open source development is how the subject people are interested in contributing to changed drastically. In the 1900s, the majority of open-source developers were fascinated with creating "open source versions of close sourced things". While after the year 2000, people started to look for more innovations and companies started to leverage open-source software.

Another interesting thing Jim noted is that as open-source projects become popular, they also become more global. People from all over the world started making contributions. So this made multi-language support and different translations of the same software become necessary.

Jim also talked about a problem that I am concerned about, which is what makes a project unsuccessful. From his point of view, the issue happens when an open-source project "stops being welcoming." This may be caused by various reasons, such as the lack of a Code of Conduct, contributors stopping being cooperative, or the maintainers of this project deciding to make the project close sourced.
    
In sum, it is exciting to talk with someone who has so much knowledge and experience with open source development. As a Computer Science student who is also interested in open source development, I learned a lot after this discussion.
