---
layout: post
title: An Introduction to Open Source Development
---

## What is "Open Source"?
In essence, open source is a model that grants everyone access to use, modify, and contribute to a project. The term "open source" often reminds me of collaboration and freedom. In an open-source model, everyone, regardless of their backgrounds, work experiences, geographical locations, has the opportunity to get together as a community to offer their ideas and skills to help improve a project. 



## What are the Advantages?
Open-source models have several advantages compared to the close-source model:

First, making a project accessible to everyone means you have the entire world to help you. When working on projects of broad scope, it is always beneficial to bring in more people to look at problems from different perspectives. During software development processes, for example, there are a lot of times when one is struck by a bug for hours before someone else walks in and points out the problem in seconds. So by making a project open-source, you introduce more fresh minds to look at the source code from different facets.

Second, you get free time and resources that may significantly accelerate the project development. There are a lot of open-source projects out there that I cannot imagine how one can accomplish without sourcing from the world. For instance, consider a closed-source Wikipedia that does not allow everyone to contribute to its content. The time and energy spent solely writing this online encyclopedia would be enormous. Thus, assembling the wisdom of crowds is an efficient way of populating such projects.

Third, open-source projects are an opportunity to learn because it allows people to study the source code. It offers a cooperative development environment that fosters learning by reading others' work.

## Potential Problems
Nevertheless, the open-source model may still arise potential problems. 

First, releasing every detail of your project also means giving others the right to modify and use your creation in whatever way they want - even if you don't want your project to be used in that way. For example, someone may alter your completely innocent code into a part of malicious software - which is opposed to your intention of making your work open to everyone. 

Second, giving everyone write access to your code can also be problematic. Consider a scenario when someone with poor coding practices contributed to your software and made all the code hard to read - it might take even more time to fix your project.

Being used to work alone, I doubted the idea of letting everyone contribute to one single project. However, after seeing so many successful open-source projects such as React, Bootstrap, and Wikipedia, I realize the importance of taking ideas and advice from different aspects. I also appreciate the beauty of having everyone make their small contributions to form a greater creation that no one can achieve single-handedly. This the reason why I registered for this course.

## Open Source Projects that Influenced Me

### VVVVVV
VVVVVV is a platformer game that I got introduced to last semester. It is a software that allows players to create their level design through drag-and-drop and writing scripts. While designing my own level on VVVVVV for a game design assignment, I encountered the bug of cannot erase tiles on my Mac computer and had to move my entire level design to a Windows PC. As a CS student, having realized that this is an open-source project, I wish to contribute to fix this bug with skills I learn in this  course.

### React
React is a Javascript Library I use a lot when developing websites. I love using React for how it keeps each part of a site seperately in an organized way. 

### Atom
Atom is my first text editor. Although I have moved to VScode, I still remember how I spent a lot of time on Atom as a freshman first being introduced to programming. 

### Wikipedia
I use wikipedia all the time to look up information - from the name of a scientist I learn from a physics class to a Computer Science term that I am unsure of. It has penetrated every aspect of my life.


