---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Group Progress Report"
---

## Presentations by Other Groups
This week, each group presented their current status on the open-source contribution. During the lectures, we shared the progress we made as well as the frustrations we had. I am surprised to learn that even in a CS class, the open-source contributions each group makes can be so various in kind.

For example, as one of the three groups that contributed to Oppia, most of our works are code-based. Hearing the updates from the other two Oppia groups, we see that besides coding contributions, some of them are also helping the Oppia team in teaching classes and translating files, while others are enhancing the projects' linting checks. The variety of types of contributions we can make for this project really impressed me.

In addition, it is also interesting to hear how many of us faced similar problems and fixed them in different ways. For example, a lot of us had issues installing our projects. Some of us fixed it by posting issues, and some of us did it by contacting the project maintainers or assigned mentors. The projects that we are working on may not have perfect file organizations or codebases, but the bright side is that most projects we are working on had a positive and welcoming community that encourages us to ask questions and make our first contributions.

## Our Progress
This week, after each of us had made our first pull requests for Oppia, we started to look at more sophisticated issues to work on. We made a list of potential issues we can solve and chose to fix one of their [UI bugs](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/15318) first.

The bug itself was not too difficult - Karina found a one-line solution to solve the problem (yay!). However, after we figured out how to fix the bug by temporarily editing on the browser's developer tools, we had problems accessing the target page in the local environment. In the end, we asked the maintainers about this, and turns out it was because we missed some important information on their [wiki page](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/wiki/How-to-access-Oppia-webpages#using-an-email-with-implicit-super-admin-privileges). Being able to test the change locally, we successfully made our 4th contribution. 

In addition to that, I also made some progress in the code review for [#15277](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/pull/15277#pullrequestreview-948445866). As the project did not have clear instructions on handling null variables, I had to read through their code base and fix the errors accordingly. I proposed the change I want to make to the maintainer, and they agreed with this proposal. However, as the change I am making will also lead to changes in other part of the file, I am trying my best to comprehend their code base and determine which way works the best.

Next week, we will continue with these current pull requests and look for more problems to work on.