---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Firefox Add-ons Activity"
---

## First Open Source Project!
This week we finished our first group assignment - the add-on activity. Our group worked on a study timer that helps the user keep track of time while working. The timer allows users to set the length of time, pause/resume, and check the remaining time in a popup whenever they want. 

We started this project with no knowledge about building a Firefox extension. However, in the end, the three of us all have learned more about Javascript as well as the basic techniques of creating an add-on from scratch. I am glad to have this opportunity to learn about building an extension and cooperate with other students on our first open-source project.

## Working on the Study Timer
I often feel insecure about working in a group for various reasons. Nevertheless, everything turned out better than I imagined once we started to work together. 

In the first meeting, we settled down on the idea of making a countdown timer that helps people to study in [pomodoro technique](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pomodoro_Technique). We also decided on implementing the following features: 
- user input to set up a time
- reset
- pause
- block certain websites while studying

I worked on the countdown timer function and the pause & reset function. One difficulty we encountered was that the extension reruns the Javascript each time one opens it. This causes the timer to restart each time the popup is opened - which makes no sense for a countdown timer.

We eventually found a way to store the duration of the countdown into localStorage, so now the timer continues to count down instead of restarting each time one opens it.

In the end, although the blocking website feature is not implemented due to the limitations of time, we are still happy about having implemented a full functioning countdown timer.

## Presentation
During the first lecture of the week, all of us presented our projects in front of the class. I am amazed at seeing all these inspiring ideas.

The Less Ugly Brightspace made by Team 1 left a deep impression on me. As a frequent Brightspace user, I also think there's a lot to improve on the website's appearance. Their presentation is also fun to watch.

I realize that our project can learn from Block-OFF made by Breakout Room 1, as this is a function we originally wanted to add to our extension. I also liked Team A's idea of Searchionary. It is an extension that I want to download because it simplifies the process of searching for words. 

I think all presentations made by my classmates are interesting to watch, and all their projects are worth trying. I truly enjoyed working on this project:)!