---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: Starting to make Contributions"
---

## Open-source Business Models
In the first class of the week, we discussed the business models built around open-source software. I am surprised to find out that although open source itself implies free access for everyone, it is used by a lot of companies as a tool for perfecting their business models. 

For instance, RedHat is the first company that successfully made money around open source. During the early stage of RedHat, they released Fedora - a free, open-source OS. The reasoning behind releasing Fedora first is to buy RedHat time to make sure that the platforms they are using are stable and fixed. So that the obstacles are observed and removed when they release the actual operating system. Thus, open-source in this sense is used as a testing bed for their software. Later on, RedHat also sells its software certificates, installation services, technical supports, and subscriptions to its "premium" version to make money. The RedHat's story is one good example of how companies made their way around open source. 

Another business model built around open source is advertisement partnership. This model is known to be used by Mozilla. On their Firefox browser, for example, they used advertisement as a way of acquiring funds. The advertisement, under this context, is not necessarily the annoying popups we often see on other websites. Firefox implemented the ads as results that show up when one types something on the search bar.

There are also other examples of open source business models, such as the peace-of-mind model and dual licensing. One that intrigues me the most is bounty-driven development. Bounty-driven development, as the name suggests, is the open-source software that pays contributors to have their bugs fixed. I find this idea interesting because I think it fits well into this decentralized model.

## First Pull Request for Oppia
In the second class of the week, we had another group meeting about the final project. All three of us in the group have gotten assigned to different issues in Oppia. We started with one of the more straightforward problems - [Make typescript checks strict #10474](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/10474). Although none of us have experience with TypeScript, following their step-by-step instructions, we were able to fix the issue and make our first pull request.

To my surprise, the process of making the actual contribution went far more smooth than installing the software. This gives me relief. Starting next week, we will look at more sophisticated issues on Oppia and solve them.
