---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Starting the Group Project"
---

## Group Project
This week we finished our group selection and started to work on our final project. During the first lecture of the week, our group decided to work on [Oppia](https://www.oppia.org/), an online learning tool for under-resourced learners. We selected this project because first, it is beginner-friendly, and second, it overlaps with all three of us's interests. Karina and I are interested in web development and frontend design, and Aashish is interested in backend development. The languages Oppia uses - Python, Javascript, HTML - are also something we are all familiar with. So we believe that this would be a viable open source project to work on. 

## Invited Talk by Tom Callaway
In the second lecture of the week, we had Tom Callaway as our guest speaker. Tom is a Principal Open Source Evangelist working on open source strategy and marketing (OSSM) at AWS. Before that, he worked at Red Hat for 19 years. 

Tom addressed many problems we had about open source projects in big companies. For example, why does Amazon care about open source development? According to him, this is because of the following reasons. First, most customers want more control over the things they are using - and Amazon cares about their customer's preferences. Second, open-source help a project to move fast and innovate, as there are always new minds joining the development. Third, open source encourages collaborations, among not only partners but also customers and competitors!

Tom also offered several tips for us, open-source beginners. One important thing for us is to be patient with ourselves and with others. The second thing is "don't write clever" - just comment well. Follow the start guideline and have a good understanding of what the project needs before writing any code. And the last but not least, there is no need to wait. Whenever you want to contribute to something, don't just think about it- put that into practice.