---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Open Source in Different Industries"
---

## Industries' Use of Open Source Technologies
After watching the videos about open source's applications in various industries, I got a better understanding of how more and more companies choose to go open-source way nowadays. 

First, open-source models have the flexibility and agility that other types of models rarely offer. It allows technology and information to be shared not only within a closed community but also across different companies. For instance, in the film and motion picture industry, [ASWF](https://www.aswf.io/) (The Academy Software Foundation) provides a cross-project platform for big production companies such as Adobe, Unreal Engine, Netflix, and Walt Disney Studios to share resources across a broader media industry. In this sense, open source plays a vital role in facilitating communication between companies and organizations.

Second, open-source also offers new companies the ability to start small. It allows start-ups to build their software first in a user-based community version. To start a business in open source software, companies need to ensure an easy installation model and a language that has a large user base such as Java and Go. Then they can test the user experience of the project in a very early stage, and migrate into a larger business model when they have collected enough feedback and data.

Finally, the open-source model has the advantage of attracting talents from everywhere. The community that open source creates can fuel the project with different "energies" - in the form of network, resources, knowledge, help, etc. For example, one of the interviews talks about how a bug in SQL that frustrated the team for a long time was resolved by a contributor by changing one line of code. Open source has the power of bringing different people with different talents and experiences together and creating wonderful products.

## Progress on Contributing to Oppia
This week, all three of us in the group made our first pull request to Oppia. We all started with more straightforward issues, hoping to get a sense of Oppia's workflow. During this process, I witnessed what I learned during the first half of the semester start to come into practice. For example, as I went through the code review process, I came to understand just how important Tom Callaway's advice of "comment well" and "understand what the project needs" are. Next week, we will look at more sophisticated issues to work on, and hopefully make more contributions.