---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: The Role Open Source Play in Communities"
---

## Reflection on The Cathedral and the Bazaar
The Cathedral and the Bazaar introduces 2 different models of software development. The Cathedral model, on the one hand, is projects that have source code open to everyone but the software itself is maintained by only developers within the team. For example, GNU Emacs and GCC are developed using this model. The Bazaar model, on the other hand, refers to projects that are open source for everyone to read and contribute. Linux and fetch mail are two examples of projects developed under this model.

Below is a quote from the article that I find interesting
> "Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone"

The benefit of inviting more fresh minds to look at one's project is the main reason why I wanted to start open-source development. Because of how people think and view things differently from one another, some may find one problem difficult to fix, others may come up with a viable solution in minutes. 

One thing that often happens to me is most bugs I am stuck with are often caused by ignoring some steps that I thought were "not so important" - using a wrong version of the programming language, didn't properly set up a virtual environment, missing a library, etc. I often stuck with these small mistakes for a long time until I search online and find someone who had the same problems. Thus, I completely agree that inviting more people to look at your project is a good way of simplifying the problem-fixing process. Since after all, "given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow."

## Selecting an Open Source Project
This week we started to look at the open-source project that we want to work on for the rest of this semester. I wanted to find a project that aligns with my interests in computer graphics, so I first checked out [Aseprite](https://www.aseprite.org/) - an animated sprite editor & pixel art tool. I use it a lot during game development processes and am always interested in how it was built. 

I started by searching up its website and visiting its Github repo. However, when I tried to build the project following its instructions, I got thousands of error outputs and spent a long time fixing them. That is when I realized this project may not be a good fit for me as a final project:(

Nevertheless, having spent time fixing and installing all dependencies of Aseprite, I ran into another great open-source library that this software built upon - [Skia](https://skia.org/). Skia is a 2D graphics library that provides common APIs that work across a variety of hardware and software platforms. I tried to build this library on my local machine, and it worked perfectly. Although I will not choose Skia as my final project either, given how it is not beginner-friendly at all, this is definitely a library that I would love to learn to use and contribute to in the future. 

In the end, after searching various combinations of topics and descriptions in Github, I finally found a project that is friendly to beginners and aligns with my interests - [Toast UI](https://ui.toast.com/tui-chart). This is an open-source JavaScript UI library that supports data visualization and image editors. Fortunately, the instructions for installing the library are very clear and did not take me too long to run this project on my computer. 

By working on this project, I hope to learn about how a JavaScript library is built and become more familiar with the typical workflow of an open-source project. One most challenging thing for me would be learning TypeScript - the primary language used in this project. I hope to pick this up quickly so I can understand more about what is going on behind the scene.