---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: First Group Meeting & Installing Oppia"
---

## First Group Meeting
This week we had our first group meeting about the final project. Before the meeting, we all struggled with installing Oppia on our devices. So we exchanged some tips and issues we learned during the installation. During the meeting, we also discussed backup plans. 

Since we are all stuck with different bugs and need to move on quickly, we decide that if we don't get the installation to work by the weekend, we switch to FreeCodeCamp. The FreeCodeCamp is an open-source project that features a ready-to-code dev environment, so we don't need to spend tens of hours trying to install it. However, we've heard of people having unpleasant experiences working on this project, and we already know that Oppia has a very welcoming community. Thus, each plan has its pros and cons.

## Installing Oppia
Although I successfully installed Oppia by the end, I had a hard time with it. I got tons of errors while setting up the virtual environment and switching between different pip versions. The debugging process is very frustrating. Nevertheless, during this process, I learned many tricks about troubleshooting the installation and extracting useful information. 

For example, Oppia requires switching between python2.7 and python3.7, and I learned to do that efficiently using pyenv. I also found keeping a log of my progress extremely helpful. While installation, I kept track of the major issues I encountered and put down how I fixed each of them. Doing this makes my life much easier because when I have similar problems later on, I can go back to the log and check how I fixed such problems earlier - what specific commands I used, which files I edited, etc.