---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Code of Conduct & Add-on"
---

## Code of Conduct Activity
### Part 1
A Code of Conduct is a set of guidelines that outlines how everyone in an organization should act and treat each other. Such a document encourages communication within a community and fosters discussion among the contributors. Other projects might also benefit from such a document because the contributors who have followed this code of conduct can bring a positive, cooperative value system when working on other projects - this will foster the collaborative environment as a whole.

One change the Go Community Code of Conduct made based on the Contributor Covenant is explaining the "open-ended" adjectives. In the Contributor Covenant, there are a lot of adjectives like <i>"patient", "constructive"</i>, and <i>"charitable"</i> that can be interpreted in drastically different ways by different people. In Go Community Code of Conduct, each of these words is briefly explained with examples so that readers can have a better idea about how they should behave.

Another difference between the two documents is conflict resolution. While the Contributor Covenant simply tells the readers to email the team when unacceptable behaviors happen, the Go Community Code of Conduct dedicates an entire section that talks about the potential benefits of conflicts. It also encourages members to actively resolve their conflicts before reporting and talks in detail about how to report unacceptable behaviors. I think the Go Community Code of Conduct made this change because they see how not all conflicts are bad, as they stated, "healthy debate and disagreement often yield positive results." 

The Eclipse Community Code of Conduct can be found [here](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php). It has a different structure from the Go Community Code of Conduct because it did not make any noticeable changes to the original Contributor Covenant.

### Part 2
The Sugar Labs Code of Conduct has a very different structure than the Go Community Code of Conduct. It is not based on another code of conduct. While the Go Community Code of Conduct uses summarizing words such as "Our Pledge", "Our Standards", "Our Responsibilities" as subtitles, the Sugar Labs Code of Conduct utilizes different adjectives that describe their expectations as subtitles. For example, they use concrete phrases such as "Be Respectful", "When you disagree, consult others" as subtitles. In this way, readers efficiently grab the point of the text through one glance.

### Part 3
The React Community Code of Conduct can be found [here](https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). It is also based on the Contributor Covenant. However, similar to the Eclipse Community Code of Conduct, the team did not change much based on the original Contributor Covenant. So the structure is different from both Code of Conduct in parts 1 and 2.

## Experience Working on Add-on Projects
I have worked with a startup once to develop a Chrome autofill extension that automates the job application process. The extension identifies the recruiting websites and auto-fills application forms including basic geographical information and short essay problems. 

During development, one challenge for us is to keep learning new things. As building an add-on is still a new concept to me at that time, there are a lot of new technologies to catch on to. In addition, the things to learn and the bugs to fix for each add-on vary a lot based on the function we are building. For example, one obstacle we encountered when working on the autofill extension was to fill into application forms on different websites using javascript. Since there are no available tutorials for this, we stuck at this bug for a long time until a team member figured out what was happening behind the scene. Thus, I find that add-on projects not only foster learning but are also challenging.
