---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: Project Evaluations"
---

## Project Evaluation Activity
This week, we started to look into the open source projects that we picked in the beginning of this semester. With the project evaluation tips we learned from last week, I get to look at each open source project from a more thorough perspective.

In the beginning of this semester, I had very little idea about what a "good" open source project is. Thus, at that time, when I was asked for a name of an open source project that I am interested in, I felt clueless and put the first open source project that appeared after the search. However, at this point of a semester, having learned how to evaluate an open source project, I get a better idea about whether this project is suitable for me to work on. 

The project our group was assigned to is FontView. It is an open source software used for viewing fonts in various file formats. In a nutshell, it is not a very beginner friendly project. Its contribution.md is not straightforward enough for someone who first started open source projects, and its issues page is not tagged and most bugs require a good understanding of the project and programming skills. In addition, it does not have a code of conduct that supports a cooperative community. And both their latest pull request and commits are done 2 years ago. So it is very likely that the people who are maintaining this repository has moved on to other projects. 

From looking at FontView, I learned that when evaluating an open source project, it is not only necessary to check if the content of this project interests you, but also important to look at other indications such as how often do the repository owners reply to the issues posts, when was the lastest commit and pull requests being done, and whether the project has a informative website and code of conduct.

## Short Films
### Starting Small: Open Data in Chile
In this video, I learned about the project Elun that collects and processes tourists' pictures into data that tells about the ecosystem. The project helps scientists to collect a large amount of data without sending out their team and spend a large amount of time and manpower to study the area. The information they collected can indicate how climate change is affecting different species, different habitats, and the variety of local animal, plant species.

What stand out to me in this project is that the project showed a smart way of using open source as a tool for empowering people. It also shows how everyone, regardless of being able to code or not, can become a part of an open source project.

### Open Source Stories: Farming for the Future
This film introduces open source projects that combines technology and agriculture. Unlike what Howard Buffett said that each farmer only has 40 seaons within their own lifetime to learn from, with modern technologies such as data analytics and robotics, we can learn from hundreds or thousands of lifetimes of experience to apply for our decision makings in farming. So this team is using technologies to optimize farming and sharing what they have with the entire world. They bring their project into schools across different part of the earth and teach the young generations how to produce food with these tools. They also give the kids a chance to communicate with other schools accross the world who are also learning from this projct and let them see beyond where they live. 

What I learned from this project is that open source is not only restricted to software development - it can be applied to various fields. With creativity and visions about the future, it might solve many bigger problems such as food insecurity and starvation.
